CalUber is a ride sharing app that intends to link Calvin students together in order to streamline the process of finding a ride to destinations in the Grand Rapids area and large cities in surrounding states. Unlike Uber or Lyft, this app is Calvin-specific and gives students an easier option of carpooling with other Calvin students. This app enables both long and short distance drives for covering rides from trips to Meijer to drives out of state for holidays.

We know there is a demand for such a service because the Free and For Sale Calvin Facebook page is frequently filled with posters looking for rides to or from Calvin, especially around holiday times. Our app would remove some of this clutter from the F&FS page and make it easier to connect with drivers. This app brings both drivers and passengers together on one platform to make communication quick and easy with the ability to quickly look up drivers, destinations and get in contact with drivers faster than scrolling through a large Facebook page.

Usability: The layout of our UI should be simple. Its organization should keep a logical flow of left to right, top to bottom. The user should be able to find the necessary bottoms to create a ride, join a ride or create a profile in ~30 s.
Reliability: The maximum acceptable system downtime would probably be about a day, depending on what time of the year it is. If it is close to a school break, maximum acceptable system downtime decreases dramatically, probably to a few hours.
Perormance: The user should be able to create a profile page in ~4 min. The user should be able to create or join a ride in ~3 min. Our app size should not be greater than 930 MB.
Supportability: Testable -- have at least three tests for every feature to test every possible outcome (test driven development)
Scalability: since we don’t expect an overwhelming amount of users, we don’t believe our app performance should deteriorate; our app architecture will not grow organically with the growing traffic and user base. 